# Geometric Calculation of Pi Using Inscribed Polygons
Here we approximate Pi by calculating the perimeter of n-gons for large values of n.  The initial code used the simple recursion formula for computing the half-angle sin from a given value of sin.  This approach produces large floating-point precision error for values of n > 2^15, and only gives an approximation of Pi to about 8 decimal places before precision loss becomes catastrophic.  We believe this extreme loss of precision for large values of n is because in the original recursion, the values of sin quickly become very small numbers.  Once the number of sides is substantial, the value of sin (and especially sin^2) begins to lose significant figures defined by the floating point rounding error, that is, we lose the ability to store the entire value we have computed due to the machine epsilon.  To remedy this, we define a recursion relation which relates 1/sin(a/2) to 1/sin(a).  This way, as we recursively compute values of 1/sin(a/2) for large values of n, the values being stored are very large numbers, rather than very small, which allow us to store many more significant figures.  The results of this recursive formula are displayed above in "pi-poly-u.pdf", which shows the expected 1/n^2 convergence rate between our approximation and the true value of Pi. 

The above uses code provided by Dr. Michael Rozman for Physics 2200 course at the University of Connecticut.

The project was a collaborative effort between myself and Filip Bergabo (UConn).
